tntcxx Getting Started documentation (#5)
tarantool/tntcxx: doc/tntcxx_getting_started.rst

Connecting to Tarantool from C++
=================================

To simplify the start of your working with the Tarantool C++ connector, we will
use the `example application <https://github.com/tarantool/tntcxx/blob/master/examples/Simple.cpp>`_
from the connector repository. We will go step by step through the application
code and explain what each part does.

The following main topics are discussed in this manual:

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

.. _gs_cxx_prereq:

Pre-requisites

> ----------------

Reviewer: Line longer than the text → will cause a warning in the build logs.

Author: Corrected.

To go through this Getting Started exercise, we need the following
pre-requisites to be done:

> * :ref:`installing and building the Tarantool C++ connector <gs_cxx_prereq_install>`

Reviewer 2: Коннектор сам по себе не требует ни установки, ни сборки - коннектор имеет хидер-онли структуру. То есть пользователь пишет свое приложение, скачивает и кладет хидера коннектора рядом с его исходным кодом, и включает их в свой проект (с помощью директивы #include).

Author: Re-written according to Nikita's comment.

* :ref:`starting Tarantool and creating a database <gs_cxx_prereq_tnt_run>`

> * :ref:`seting up access rights <gs_cxx_prereq_access>`.

Reviewer 2: 'setting' - double t :)

Author: Corrected.

.. _gs_cxx_prereq_install:

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Currently supported OS for the Tarantool C++ connector usage is Linux.

Reviewer 2: 1. There's no packages to build at all
2. MacOS and Windows are definitely not supported yet. As for other unix-like distributives - I can't say for sure since haven't tested it
3. Of course

> Currently supported OS for the Tarantool C++ connector usage is Linux.

Author: "Supported" means that we can install, build and use the connector on Linux only. It doesn't work on other OS. We don't build packages to download&install if you mean that; currently the connector can only be build from source. Didn't fully get the point of fixing bugs on Linux. Can you please elaborate?

To install the connector in your OS, you should build it from the source.

.. //TBD For the 3d-party  and Tarantool steps, maybe later we can move these details to REAMDE and leave here the links to those sections of README

#. Make sure you have the necessary third-party software. If you miss some of
   the items, install them:

   * `install <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git>`_
      ``git``, a version control system
   * `install <https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-unzip-files-in-linux/#installing-unzip>`_
      the ``unzip`` utility
   * `install <https://gcc.gnu.org/install/>`_ the ``gcc`` compiler `complied
      with the C++17 standard <https://gcc.gnu.org/projects/cxx-status.html#cxx17>`_.

>    * `install <https://cmake.org/install/>`_ the ``cmake`` and ``make`` tools.

Author: Links have been corrected.

As for the punctuation in bulleted list, I would suggest to use the approach that we don't put any punctuation marks at the end of a list item if the item is a simple phrase (not a complete sentence).

- https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/scannable-content/lists#punctuation
- https://lawprofessors.typepad.com/legal_skills/2012/01/how-to-punctuate-bullet-points-.html

Currently leave the items here without commas, but we can discuss and decide the approach for our style guide.

> #. If you don't have Tarantool in you OS, install it in one of the ways:

Author: Corrected.

   * from a package--refer to `OS-specific instructions <https://www.tarantool.io/en/download/>`_
   * from the `source <https://www.tarantool.io/en/download/os-installation/building-from-source/>`_.

> #. Clone the Tarantool C++ connector repository and build the connector from

Author: Currently, yes, we have to build the connector from source.

> #. Clone the Tarantool C++ connector repository and build the connector from

Author: Corrected according to Nikita's comment above that we don't need to build the connector.

   the source.

   .. code-block:: bash

      git clone git@github.com:tarantool/tntcxx.git
      cd tntcxx
      cmake .
      make

.. _gs_cxx_prereq_tnt_run:

Starting Tarantool and creating a database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Start Tarantool :ref:`locally <getting_started-using_package_manager>`
or :ref:`in Docker <getting_started-using_docker>`
and create a space with the following schema and index:

.. code-block:: lua

    box.cfg{listen = 3301}
    t = box.schema.space.create('t')
    t:format({
             {name = 'id', type = 'unsigned'},
             {name = 'a', type = 'string'},
             {name = 'b', type = 'number'}
             })
    t:create_index('primary', {
             type = 'hash',
             parts = {'id'}
             })

.. IMPORTANT::

>    Please do not close the terminal window where Tarantool is running.

Reviewer: “Please” is for cases when we need something and ask the user/reader to do it.

> Please tell us about your experience with the C++ connector.
```suggestion
   Do not close the terminal window where Tarantool is running.
```

Author: Corrected.

>    You will need it later to connect to Tarantool from our C++ application.

Reviewer: Who are we (our)? Are we in a team with the reader?

.. _gs_cxx_prereq_access:

Setting up access rights
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To be able to execute the necessary operations in Tarantool, we need to grant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to execute the necessary operations in Tarantool, you need to grant
```

Author: Corrected.

the ``guest`` user with the read-write rights. The simplest way is to grant
the user with the :ref:`super role <authentication-roles>`:

.. code-block:: lua

   box.schema.user.grant('guest', 'super')

.. _gs_cxx_connect:

Connecting to Tarantool
-----------------------

There are three main parts of the C++ connector: the IO-zero-copy buffer,
the msgpack encoder/decoder, and the client that handles requests.

To set up connection to a Tarantool instance from our C++ application, we need
to specify the following in the application code:

* :ref:`to embed the connector into the application <gs_cxx_connect_embed>`
* :ref:`to instantiate a connector client and a connection object <gs_cxx_connect_instantiate>`
* :ref:`to define connection parameters and invoke the method to connect <gs_cxx_connect_connecting>`

> * :ref:`to define error handling behavior <gs_cxx_connect_error>`.

Reviewer: > to specify the following:
> * to embed
> * to instantiate
> * to define

This doesn't match. One can't specify to define. Maybe:

> you need to do the following:
> * embed
> * instantiate
> * define

Author: Corrected.

.. _gs_cxx_connect_embed:

Embedding connector
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The connector is embedded in a C++ application by including the main header:

Reviewer: Passive voice hides the real action here.

```suggestion
Embed the connector in your C++ application by including the main header:
```

Author: Corrected.

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Simple.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel01-1
   :end-before: doclabel01-2

>    :language: c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :language: cpp
```

Author: Corrected throughout the text.

.. _gs_cxx_connect_instantiate:

Instantiating objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, we should create a connector client. It can handle many connections
to Tarantool instances asynchronously. To instantiate a client, you should specify
the buffer and the network provider implementations as template parameters.
The connector's main class has the following signature:

.. code-block:: c

   template<class BUFFER, class NetProvider = DefaultNetProvider<BUFFER>>
   class Connector;

> The buffer is parametrized by allocator, which means that users are able
> to choose which allocator will be used to provide memory for buffer's blocks.
> Data is originized into linked list of blocks of fixed size that is specified
> as template parameter of buffer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The buffer is parametrized by allocator. It means that users can
choose which allocator will be used to provide memory for the buffer's blocks.
Data is organized into a linked list of blocks of fixed size that is specified
as the template parameter of the buffer.
```

Author: Corrected.

You can either implement your own buffer or network provider or use the default
ones as we do in our example. So, the default connector instantiation looks
as follows:

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Simple.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel02-1
   :end-before: doclabel02-2
   :language: c

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Simple.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel03-1
   :end-before: doclabel03-2
   :language: c

To use the ``BUFFER`` class, the buffer header should also be included:

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Simple.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel01-2
   :end-before: doclabel01-3
   :language: c

> A client itself is not enough to work with Tarantool instances--we
> also need creating connection objects. A connection also takes the buffer and
> the network provider as template parameters (note that they must be the same
> as ones of the client):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A client itself is not enough to work with Tarantool instances--we
also need to create connection objects. A connection also takes the buffer and
the network provider as template parameters. Note that they must be the same
as ones of the client:
```

Author: Corrected.

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Simple.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel06-1
   :end-before: doclabel06-2
   :language: c

.. _gs_cxx_connect_error:

Error handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Implementation of the connector is exception free, so we rely on the return
codes: in case of fail, the ``connect()`` method returns ``rc < 0``. To get the
error message corresponding to the last error occured during
communication with the instance, we can invoke the ``Connection::getError()``
method.

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Simple.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel06-2
   :end-before: doclabel06-3
   :language: c

To reset connection after errors, that is, to clean up the error message and
connection status, the ``Connection::reset()`` method is used.

.. // TBD For the detailed information on the connector's API, refer to <link to the API document parts related to the API used here> -- implement this line when API document is ready.

.. _gs_cxx_requests:

Working with requests
---------------------

In this section, we will show how to:

* :ref:`prepare different types of requests <gs_cxx_requests_prepare>`
* :ref:`send the requests <gs_cxx_requests_send>`

> * :ref:`receive and handle responses <gs_cxx_requests_response>`.

Reviewer: This list is an example of good syntax.

We will also go through the :ref:`case of having several connections <gs_cxx_requests_several>`
and executing a number of requests from different connections simultaneously.

In our example C++ application, we execute the following types of requests:

* ping
* replace
* select.

.. NOTE::

   Examples on other request types, namely, ``insert``, ``delete``, ``upsert``,
   and ``update``, will be added to this manual later.

Each request method returns a request ID that is a sort of `future <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Futures_and_promises>`_.

> It can be used to get the result of request execution once it is ready, that is,
> response. Requests are queued in the output buffer of connection

Reviewer: I don't get the “once it is ready, that is, response” part.

```suggestion
This ID can be used to get the response message when it is ready.
Requests are queued in the output buffer of connection
```

Author: Corrected.

until the ``Connector::wait()`` method is called.

.. _gs_cxx_requests_prepare:

Preparing requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> At this step, requests are encoded in the msgpack format and saved in the

Reviewer: I believe, it's called [MessagePack](https://msgpack.org/)
```suggestion
At this step, requests are encoded in the MessagePack format and saved in the
```

Author: Corrected.

output connection buffer. They are ready to be sent but the network
communication itself will be done later.

Let's remind that for the requests manipulating with data we are dealing
with the Tarantool space ``t`` :ref:`created earlier <gs_cxx_prereq_tnt_run>`,
and the space has the following format:

.. code-block:: lua

    t:format({
             {name = 'id', type = 'unsigned'},
             {name = 'a', type = 'string'},
             {name = 'b', type = 'number'}
             })

**ping**

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Simple.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel07-1
   :end-before: doclabel07-2
   :language: c

**replace**

Equals to Lua request ``<space_name>:replace(pk_value, "111", 1)``.

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Simple.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel08-1
   :end-before: doclabel08-2
   :language: c

**select**

Equals to Lua request ``<space_name>.index[0]:select({pk_value}, {limit = 1})``.

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Simple.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel09-1
   :end-before: doclabel09-2
   :language: c

.. _gs_cxx_requests_send:

Sending requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To send requests to the server side, we should invoke the ``client.wait()``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send requests to the server side, invoke the ``client.wait()``
```

Author: Corrected.

method.

.. code-block:: c

   client.wait(conn, ping, WAIT_TIMEOUT);

> The ``wait()`` method takes the connection to poll (both IN and OUT),

Reviewer 2: (both IN and OUT) -- I believe this clarification is better to be dropped (looks a bit misleading)

Author: Corrected.

the request ID, and, optionally, the timeout as parameters. Once a response
for the specified request is ready, ``wait()`` terminates. It also
provides a negative return code in case of system related fails, for example,
a broken or timeouted connection. If ``wait()`` returns ``0``, then a response
has been received and expected to be parsed.

Now let's send our requests to the Tarantool instance.
The ``futureIsReady()`` function checks availability of a future and returns
``true`` or ``false``.

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Simple.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel10-1
   :end-before: doclabel10-2
   :language: c

.. // TBD For the detailed information on the connector's API, refer to <link to the API document parts related to the API used here> -- implement this line when API document is ready.

.. _gs_cxx_requests_response:

Receiving responses
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To get the response when it is ready, use
the ``Connection::getResponse()`` method. It takes the request ID and returns
an optional object containing the response. If the response is not ready yet,

> the method returns ``nullptr``. Note that on each future,

Reviewer 2: nullptr --> std::nullopt

Author: Corrected.

   :start-after: doclabel11-2
   :end-before: doclabel11-3
   :language: c

.. // TBD For the detailed information on the connector's API, refer to <link to the API document parts related to the API used here> -- implement this line when API document is ready.

.. _gs_cxx_requests_several:

Several connections at once
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now, let's have a look at the case when we establish two connections
to Tarantool instance simultaneously.

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Simple.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel11-3
   :end-before: doclabel11-4
   :language: c

.. // TBD For the detailed information on the connector's API, refer to <link to the API document parts related to the API used here> -- implement this line when API document is ready.

.. _gs_cxx_requests_close:

Closing connections
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Finally, a user is responsible for closing connections.

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Simple.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel12-1
   :end-before: doclabel12-2
   :language: c

.. _gs_cxx_build:

Building and launching C++ application
-------------------------------------------

Now, we are going to build our example C++ application, launch it

> to connect to Tarantool instance and execute all the requests defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to connect to the Tarantool instance and execute all the requests defined.
```

Author: Corrected.

Make sure you are in the root directory of the cloned C++ connector repository.
To build the example application:

.. code-block:: bash

   cd examples
   cmake .
   make

Make sure the :ref:`Tarantool session <gs_cxx_prereq_tnt_run>`
you started earlier is running. Launch the application:

.. code-block:: bash

   ./Simple

As you can see from the execution log, all the connections to Tarantool
defined in our application have been established and all the requests
have been executed successfully.

.. //TBD Maybe to quote here the full execution log (62 lines)

.. _gs_cxx_reader:

Decoding and reading the data
------------------------------

Responses from a Tarantool instance contain raw data, that is, the data encoded

> into the msgpack tuples. To decode client's data, a user has to write one's own

Reviewer: If it isn't a package, library or CLI program name, we should use the full and capitalized name. 

Also, “one has to write one's own” or “user has to write their own”.
```suggestion
into the MessagePack tuples. To decode client's data, the user has to write their own
```

Author: Corrected.

   :end-before: doclabel01-4
   :language: c

To show the logic of decoding a response, we will use
`the reader from our example <https://github.com/tarantool/tntcxx/blob/master/examples/Reader.hpp>`_.

First, the structure corresponding our :ref:`example space format <gs_cxx_prereq_tnt_run>`
is defined:

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Reader.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel13-1
   :end-before: doclabel13-2
   :language: c

.. _gs_cxx_reader_base:

Base reader prototype
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Prototype of the base reader is given in ``src/mpp/Dec.hpp``:

.. code-block:: c

   template <class BUFFER, Type TYPE>
   struct SimpleReaderBase : DefaultErrorHandler {
       using BufferIterator_t = typename BUFFER::iterator;
       /* Allowed type of values to be parsed. */
       static constexpr Type VALID_TYPES = TYPE;
       BufferIterator_t* StoreEndIterator() { return nullptr; }
   };

Every new reader should inherit from it or directly from the
``DefaultErrorHandler``.

.. _gs_cxx_reader_parse_value:

Parsing values
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To parse a particular value, we should define the ``Value()`` method.
First two arguments of the method are common and unused as a rule,

> but the third one defines the parsed value. In case of POD structures, it's

Reviewer: What's POD? A link would be helpful.

Author: Plain Old Data. Added the link to Wikipedia article.

enough to provide a byte-to-byte copy. Since there are
fields of three different types in our schema, let's define the corresponding
 ``Value()`` functions:

.. literalinclude:: ./_includes/Reader.cpp
   :start-after: doclabel14-1
   :end-before: doclabel14-2
   :language: c

.. _gs_cxx_reader_parse_array:

Parsing array
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> It's also important to understand that a tuple itself is wrapped into an array,

Reviewer: Завёрнут в, не внутрь.

```suggestion
It's also important to understand that a tuple itself is wrapped in an array,
```

Author: Corrected.
